# <div align="center"> Learning Web Design - _Jennifer Niederst Robbins_ </div>

<div align="center"> A beginner's guide to HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Web Graphics </div>

## Table of Content:

1. [PART 1 - GETTING STARTED](#part-1---getting-started)
   1. [Getting Started]()
   2. [How the web works]()
   3. [Some Big Conepets You Need to Know]()
2. [PART 2 - HTML FOR STRUCTURE]()
   1. [Creating a Simple Page]()
   2. [Marking Up Text]()
   3. [Adding Links]()
   4. [Adding Images]()
   5. [Table Markup]()
   6. [Forms]()
   7. [Embedded Media]()
3. [PART 3 - CSS FOR PRESENTATION]()
   1. [Introduction Cascading Style Sheets]()
   2. [Formatting Text]()
   3. [Colors and Backrounds]()
   4. [Thinking Inside the Box]()
   5. [Floating and Positioning]()
   6. [CSS Layout With Flexbox and Grid]()
   7. [Responive Web Design]()
   8. [Transition, Transforms, and Animation]()
   9. [More CSS Techniques]()
   10. [Modern Web Development Tools]()
4. [PART 4 - JavaScript for Behavior]
   1. [Introduction to JavaScript]()
   2. [Using JavaScript]()
5. [PART 5 - Web Images]()
   1. [Web Image Basics]()
   2. [Image Asset Production]()
   3. [SVG]()

## PART 1 - GETTING STARTED

**Part 1** lays a foundation for everything that follow the book. Starts off with some general information about the web design environment, technologies and tools.

### Getting Started in Web Design

#### Content Wrangling

**Information Architecture**
An Information Architecture (also called an Information Designer) organize the content logically and for ease of findability. They may responible for search functionality, site diagrams, and how the content and data are organized on the server. Information Architecture is inevitably entwined with UX and UI design.

**Content Strategy**
A Content Strategist males sure that every bit of text on a site, from long explanatory text down to the labels on buttons, supports the brand identity an marketing goals of the organization. Content strategy may also extend to data modeling and content management on a large and ongoing scale, such as planning for content reuse and update schedules.

#### All Manner of Design

**User Experience, Interaction, and User Interface Design**

Before you pick colors and fonts, it is important to identify the site's goals, how it will be used, and how visitors move through it. These tasks fall under the disciplines of User Experience (UX), Interaction Design (IxD), an User Interface (UI) design.

The User Experience designer takes a holistic view of the design process ensuring the entire experience with the site is favorable. UX design is based on solid understanding of users and their needs based on observations and interviews.

The goal of the Interaction Design is to make the site as easy, efficient, and delightful to use as possible. Closely related to Interaction Design is User Interface design, which tends to be more narrowly focused on the functional organization of the page as well as the specific tools.

\*\*Frontend Development
Frontend Development includes the following web technologies:

- HyperText Markup Language (HTML)
- Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)
- JavaScript and DOM scripting, including AJAX and JavaScript-based frameworks.

**The World Wide Web**

The **World Wide Web Consortium** is the organization that oversees the development of web technologies such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

**Backend Development**

The following technologies are typically in the domain of the backend developer:

- Server software (Apache, Microsoft IIS)
- Web application languages (PHP, Ruby, Python, JSP, ASP.NET)
- Database software (MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server)

### How the Web Works

The web is a subset of the internet. It is just one of many ways information can be transferred over networked computers.

**Open Source**

Open source software is developed as a collaborative effort with the intent to make its source code available to other programmers for use and modification. Open source programs are usually free to use.

\*\*Static vs. Dynamic Sites

Static websites consist of HTML files with fixed content that display the same information to every visitor. In other words, each page you see in the browser is a view of a single HTML file on the server. This book focuses on the creation to static we pages as they are straightforward and the best starting place for beginners.

By contrast, dynamic websites are generated with backend programming such as PHP or ASP. Each page is generated by the application on the fly. Dynamic sites access content and data from a database, and the final pages may be customized for each user. For extremely large sites with hundreds or thousands of pages, setting up and maintaining a dynamic site is considerably less work than creating and storing every page as a static HTML document.

**Responsive Web Design**

Responsive web design (RWD) is a strategy for proividing appropriate layouts to devices based on the size of the viewport (browser window). The key to Responsive Web Design is serving a single HTML document (with on URL) to all devices, but applying different style sheets based on the screen size in order to provide the most optimized layout for that device.
